.. link: 
.. description: 
.. tags: 
.. date: 2013/11/30 23:15:35
.. title: My hardware & software setup
.. slug: my-hardware-software-setup
.. nocomments: true

I love reading about the tools that people use to do their work. Here's mine.

Work
====

At the office, I use a MacBook Pro running OSX Lion with a Thunderbolt monitor. I create and edit graphics in Photoshop and Illustrator, create documents in InDesign, and write a ton of JavaScript and CSS in Sublime Text 3. I've also worked on a few Rails sites in RubyMine (though the amount of Ruby code I've written in my lifetime is minimal). Before Sublime Text 3, TextWrangler was my text editor of choice.

I test most of my code with JSHint, the AngularJS plugin for Chrome, and the inspector in Chrome. I conduct cross-browser testing in Firefox and Safari and viewport testing on an old iPod.

Back when I worked on the business development side of my company, I wrote some Google Apps Script code to automate things like invoice calculation. I actually love this kind of stuff and would do more of it if I had time.

Oh, and GitHub for everything.

Home
====

Now for the fun stuff. My personal computer is a ZaReason Alto 3880 laptop running Linux Mint 13 MATE. In other words, it's a Linux box from an independent shop in Berkeley. I came from a pure Windows background, so this computer literally changed the way I thought about our digital companions. It looks like Windows circa 95, when it was decent, with the speed of a shiny new MacBook.

I mainly use my computer to study up on technologies that interest me. Earlier this year I was reading Natural Language Processing with Python (fantastic book if anyone's curious), so I wrote a good chunk of Python + NLTK code. Recently I started taking a few classes on Coursera, which have given me a nice introduction to R and Octave. I write Python in Emacs, but R and Octave in pluma.

I also edit this site in pluma. The markup language is reStructuredText and the engine that creates the pages is Nikola, a really awesome Python-based static site generator that I mentioned in my first post.

For typesetting documents, I write simple LaTeX in Texmaker. This might seem like overkill, considering I don't use the crowning feature of LaTeX (math), but I like pretty documents. LaTeX is the only way to make pretty documents on Linux as far as I know.

Speaking of which, it's a huge pain to do any kind of graphic work on Linux. I open GIMP ("Photoshop") and Xara Xtreme ("Illustrator") if I absolutely HAVE to edit a picture on my computer, but I try to minimize that need. Actually, I'd go for ImageMagick on the command line before all else.

Lastly, I do most of my writing in Evernote, particularly on my phone. It's a nearly four-year old HTC Droid Eris.




